---
title: How to install OSQA
tags: python, django, maygodhavemercy, ubuntu
---

OSQA is "[The Open Source Q&A System](http://www.dzonesoftware.com/products/open-source-question-answer-software)". [The official download link](https://github.com/dzone/OSQA) goes to a github repo with the last commit in February of 2015.

Should you want to install this? No. But if you have to install this, buckle up and get ready for the ride.

This is for Ubuntu 16.04. Deviating from this guide will land you in the curb, with bruises. Notably, OSQA will not work. Yes, I use pip to install things globally. If you want to use a virtualenv be my guest but don't forget to enable `--system-site-packages`. Oh and you *will* need to use pip to install virtualenv for python 2.

## Basic installation

Install some dependencies and create a user:

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
    sudo apt-get install python-pip git libmysqlclient-dev mysql-server
    # sudo pip install virtualenv # optional
    sudo adduser --home /var/www/osqa osqa --disabled-password

Setup MySQL:

    sudo mysql_secure_installation
    mysql -u root -p
    \> create database osqa DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_general_ci;
    \> CREATE USER 'osqa'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'the_password';
    \> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON osqa . * TO 'osqa'@'localhost';
    \> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
    \> quit

Setup OSQA (See below for what to fix up in `settings_local.py`):

    sudo -u osqa -i
    git clone https://github.com/dzone/osqa.git
    # virtualenv osqa_env --system-site-packages # optional, but obviously remove the
    # . ./osqa_env/bin/activate                  # "sudo" from the pip install hereafter
    sudo pip install Markdown==2.4.1
    sudo pip install mysql-python
    cd osqa
    sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
    cp settings_local.py{.dist,}
    vim settings.py                             # Change the SECRET_KEY

Settings you should change in `settings_local.py`:

  * `INTERNAL_IPS`
  * `ALLOWED_HOSTS`
  * The MySQL auth data
  * `APP_URL`
  * `TIME_ZONE`

Setup Django:

    python manage.py syncdb --all           # Don't set up a superuser. Or do. I'm not the police.
    python manage.py migrate forum --fake
    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8080

## WSGI

    sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-wsgi

Then make up a site config and adjust the wsgi runner in the osqa dir. (TBD)
